Data Analysis Project Steps
● Create a Problem Statement.
● Identify the data you want to analyze.
● Explore and Clean the data.
● Analyze the data to get useful insights.
● Present the data in terms of reports or dashboards using visualization.
Research Question
1. What are the variables that affect hotel reservation cancellations?
2. How can we make hotel reservations cancellations better?
3. How will hotels be assisted in making pricing and promotional decisions?
Hypothesis
1. More cancellations occur when prices are higher.
2. When there is a longer waiting list, customers tend to cancel more frequently.
3. The majority of clients are coming from offline travel agents to make their reservations.
Analysis and Findings Reservation status
The accompanying bar graph shows the percentage of reservations that are canceled and those that are not. It is
obvious that there are still a significant number of reservations that have not been canceled. There are still 37% of
clients who canceled their reservation, which has a significant impact on the hotels earnings

In comparison to resort hotels, city hotels have more bookings. It's possible that resort hotels are more expensive
than those in cities.
The line graph below shows that, on certain days, the average daily rate for a city hotel is less than that of a resort
hotel, and on other days, it is even less. It goes without saying that weekends and holidays may see a rise in resort
hotel rates.
We have developed the grouped bar graph to analyze the months with the highest and lowest reservation levels
according to reservation status. As can be seen, both the number of confirmed reservations and the number of
canceled reservations are largest in the month of August. whereas January is the month with the most canceled
reservations.
This bar graph demonstrates that cancellations are most common when prices are greatest and are least common
when they are lowest. Therefore, the cost of the accommodation is solely responsible for the cancellation. Now, let's
see which country has the highest reservation canceled. The top country is Portugal with the highest number of
cancellations.
Let's check the area from where guests are visiting the hotels and making reservations. Is it
coming from Direct or Groups, Online or Offline Travel Agents? Around 46% of the clients come
from online travel agencies, whereas 27% come from groups. Only 4% of clients book hotels
directly by visiting them and making reservations.
As seen in the graph, reservations are canceled when the average daily rate is higher than
when it is not canceled. It clearly proves all the above analysis, that the higher price leads to
higher cancellation.
Suggestions
1. Cancellation rates rise as the price does. In order to prevent cancellations of reservations,
hotels could work on their pricing strategies and try to lower the rates for specific hotels based
on locations. They can also provide some discounts to the consumers.
2. As the ratio of the cancellation and not cancellation of the resort hotel is higher in the resort
hotel than the city hotels. So the hotels should provide a reasonable discount on the room
prices on weekends or on holidays.
3. In the month of January, hotels can start campaigns or marketing with a reasonable amount
to increase their revenue as the cancellation is the highest in this month.
4. They can also increase the quality of their hotels and their services mainly in Portugal to
reduce the cancellation rate.
